PhoneLab Policies
=================

PhoneLab is an open-access smartphone platform testbed operated by the PhoneLab
team (we) at the Computer Science and Engineering Department at the University
at Buffalo, The State University of New York (UB). It consists of smartphones,
participants that use the smartphones, and control software. It is designed to
be open-access, meaning that researchers inside and outside of UB will conduct
research studies using PhoneLab. It provides realism by having participants use
their experimental smartphone as their primary device allowing research
experiments to be performed under realistic conditions and with real user
inputs. This document contains terms and conditions that each and every
experimenter should be aware of and agree to before using PhoneLab.

Access and Administration
-------------------------
The use of the testbed is allowed for most academic purposes. We will reserve
the right to grant or deny PhoneLab access depending on the nature of the
experiment and the demand of the testbed. The current policy only allows the use
of the testbed for research, not for education or development.

Data Release
------------
PhoneLab will only release data to researchers whose requests have been reviewed
and approved or marked exempt by their institution's Institutional Review Board
(IRB) or equivalent human subjects protection body. PhoneLab will assist
researchers whose protocols require affirmative consent from PhoneLab
participants.

Participation
-------------
PhoneLab makes no guarantees about the size of our testbed or how many
participants will choose to provide data at your request. Participants may opt
in and out of experiments on a per-experiment basis.

Acceptable Use
--------------
We require that researchers act within the bounds of the experiment they have
had reviewed by their IRB. We reserve the right to define abuse of PhoneLab as
broadly as possible in the interest of protecting our participants.
Misrepresentation of the purpose for using the testbed or misuse of PhoneLab
data will result in experimenters losing access to PhoneLab and having their
academic or research institution notified of their behavior.

Policy Changes
--------------
We also reserve the right to change our policies at any point of time in the
future.

Disclaimer
----------
PhoneLab is provided as-is without any warranty. We disclaim any and all
liability of an experiment's results, its errors, and any of its side-effects,
broadly defined. We also disclaim any errors or problems that arise out of
security and reliability issues of our software.
